---
layout: post
title: Such a rut

---

### The ennui is strong with this one

So it's been a couple of months and I've come to one obvious conclusion: job requirement listings may as well be arbitraty when a recruiter or HR type posts it. For example, while there may be more nuance to this than I am appreciating, I've seen job postings for Ruby on Rails positions that require 10+ years of Rails experience. While this checks out in that vesion 1.0 of Rails was released December 13th 2005, it seems incredibly unlikley that in 2015-2016 theres some kind of glut of Ruby on Rails developers who have been working with it for the entire length of time Rails was out. Equally implauseable to me is that any of those people would be checking job boards for new opportunities. If I had total control over the world tech based job sites should administer some kind of test the reletive rank of the programmer and place them in teirs accordingly. This way recruiters and talent won't be wasting each others times on jobs that basic reading skills should have weeded out.
As someone with limited experience and no real professional experience I find it odd that I keep getting email blasts about jobs FAR outside my area and for senior level positions. Maybe my resume isn't properly keyword optimized properly, but while it was apparently too subtle for the automated systems to catch, you would think the human making the phone call would look at the resume and realize I'm some 10 years out from even having the potential to get the job.

